Yeah, Mark.
>> Do you always use const
when creating components?
>> It's a good question.
So I have const App = here,
totally preference.
I use const, and
that's just force of habit.
It's one of the things like semicolons,
I really just profoundly don't
care how you choose to do it.
It's literally my least
favorite thing to argue about,
it's these stupid syntactical things,
right, of do you do it this way?
Do you do it this way?
Does it work?
Does it compile?
Can I read your code?
If all those things are yes,
I just don't care.
I really don't care.
So you can put var here.
You can put let here.
You can put const here, doesn't matter.
So maybe stated a little less snarkily,
which is hard for me sometimes,
it makes no difference to React, right?
Just write however you
normally write JavaScript.
That's a better way to
answer that question.
>> There's a question around
createRoot that wasn't in the previous
versions of the course.
>> Correct, okay, yeah.
So let's talk about createRoot here,
which comes from ReactDOM.
This is the new way of rendering
to the DOM from React.
It used to be ReactDOM just render, right?
And it's even still in there,
so ReactDOM.render,
you don't have to copy this cuz
I'm just showing you how it works.
And you would do container, App.
And this is what it used to look like.
Why do we do this now, .createRoot?
With React 18, we got a new thing
called concurrency, which it used to be
concurrent mode and now it's actually
just kind of built into React.
There's no static mode versus
concurrent mode, it's just React mode.
Part of this that they did this is so that
you can kind of opt into the new features.
Cuz as soon as you put createRoot
in there, React knows like, okay,
this person has updated to the new version
of React and they're anticipating that.
This will put it into
what's called legacy mode,
which doesn't have all the new
concurrency features of React 18.
So in other words,
just always do createRoot now,
you don't wanna do render anymore,
unless you specifically have reasons to
stay on the older methodology
of rendering React.
The other thing that's nice about
this is now you have this root thing,
that you can just say root, and I think
it's you just call render again, and
then it'll just re-render this.
You have a handle on an object that
you can call to force top level
re-renders of your entire
React application.
If you asked me how often I do that,
the answer is never, or I haven't yet.
I can see reasons.
There are reasons that you
would want to do that,
that I'm having a hard time making up
an example of why you'd wanna do that.
Maybe you just got new information from,
I don't know.
I don't know, a web socket or
something that came in and
you need to rerender your
entire React application.
Or maybe there's some external third party
application thing that's calling into
React and you need to rerender that.
I guess that's probably the best thing.
If you had maybe a React island, right,
in the frontend that had Angular on
there as well, and you need to pass
something from Angular into React,
I could see that being a reason.
It's like, okay, rerender my entire world.
Otherwise, for the most part, you wanna
keep all of your state inside of React,
so you wouldn't wanna do that.
Anyway, that is the nice thing
about having a root here.
This is a better API than
what was there previously.
But this is the old API.
So yes,
that is what createRoot is different of.
If you're looking at this and
you've never seen the old API before,
just forget about it,
you never have to use it.
Just use the new API always and
forever, forget that ReactDOM.render
even existed Cool, other questions?
Yeah?
>> I'm assuming you're gonna get into
this, so probably not answering it
right now, but the main benefit of React,
just using React in general.
>> Yeah, the value proposition of it.
Yeah, We wanna answer that.
I think I might have kinda
covered it a little bit, but
I know we just kinda get it as we go on.
But it's a very small library to
learn to render user interfaces.
And it's really great at handling lots
of state that generates
interfaces from state.
It's not super opinionated
about your data,
it's not super opinionated about where it
renders, or a bunch of stuff like that.
It really is, it's like I have some state
and I want to generate a view out of it.
That is my main value proposition too for
React.
By the end of this course in intermediate
React, you'll probably know,
I'm gonna say, 90% of the surface area
of React, which is awesome, right?
There's probably, I don't know,
somewhere between 30 and
50 APIs that React ships now,
which is knowable, right?
You can know all of that.
I remember old are like jQuery, right?
How many of you think that you've
used every single method on jQuery?
Or Lodash, that's another good one.
For people at home,
no one's raising their hand.
Which is why, is because no one has.
I don't think even the creators and
maintainers of it know all of their APIs,
there's like 2 or 300, right?
It's not knowable, you can't keep all
that in your head nor should you.
So I think that's why I like React.
The one thing, it does it really well.
And then there's a bunch of libraries and
ecosystem stuff around it to do
everything else that you need to do.
So that to me is the main
value proposition of React.
>> I used all of jQuery, but-
>> I don't believe you [LAUGH].
Let's talk about the weird
edge cases of deferreds,
cuz there's some weird stuff in there,
there's methods to handle things
that you just never wanted to do.